Create 02-API_Broken_Object_Level_Authorization.md (#1190)
OWASP/wstg: document/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/12-API_Testing/02-API_Broken_Object_Level_Authorization.md

Exploiting BOLA can lead to unauthorized access to sensitive data, user impersonation, horizontal privilege escalation (accessing other users' resources), and vertical privilege escalation (gaining unauthorized admin-level access).

## Test Objectives

- The objective of this test is to identify whether the API enforces proper **object-level authorization** checks, ensuring that users can only access and manipulate objects they are authorized to interact with.

## How to Test

### Understand API Endpoints and Object References

Review API documentation (e.g. OpenAPI specification), traffic, or use an interception proxy (e.g., **Burp Suite**, **ZAP**) to identify endpoints that accept object identifiers of interest. These could be in the form of **IDs**, **UUIDs**, or other references.

Examples:

> - GET /api/users/{user_id}
> - GET /api/orders/{order_id}
> - POST /graphql\
>         query: {user(id: "123") }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `GET /api/users/{user_id}`
- `GET /api/orders/{order_id}`
- `POST /graphql`\
        `query: {user(id: "123") }`
```

- **DELETE**: Try to delete an object owned by another user.

### Test BOLA in GraphQL APIs

For **GraphQL APIs**, send a query with a modified object ID in the query parameters (see [Testing GraphQL](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/stable/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/12-API_Testing/01-Testing_GraphQL)):

Example: `query { user(id: "124") { name, email } }`.

### Test for Bulk Object Access

Test if the API allows unauthorized **bulk access** to objects. This could happen in endpoints that return lists of objects.

Example: `GET /api/users` returns data for all users instead of only the authenticated user’s data.

## Indicators of BOLA

- **Successful exploitation**: If modifying an object ID in the request returns data or allows actions on objects that belong to other users, the API is vulnerable to BOLA.
- **Error responses**: Properly secured APIs in general would return `403 Forbidden` or `401 Unauthorized` for unauthorized object access. A `200 OK` response for another user's object indicates BOLA.
- **Inconsistent responses**: If some endpoints enforce authorization and others do not, it points to incomplete or inconsistent security controls.

> ## Remediations
> 
> To prevent BOLA, implement the following mitigations:
> 
> - **Object Ownership Checks**: Ensure that object-level authorization checks are performed for every API request. Always verify that the user making the request is authorized to access the requested object.
> - **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)**: Implement RBAC policies that define which roles can access or modify specific objects.
> - **Least Privilege Principle**: Apply the principle of least privilege to ensure that users can only access the minimum set of objects they need for their role.
> - **Use UUIDs or Non-Sequential IDs**: Prefer non-predictable, non-sequential object identifiers (e.g., **UUIDs** instead of simple integers) to make enumeration and brute-force attacks harder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Remediation

- **Object Ownership Checks**: Ensure that object-level authorization checks are performed for every API request. Always verify that the user making the request is authorized to access the requested object.
- **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)**: Implement RBAC policies that define which roles can access or modify specific objects.
- **Least Privilege Principle**: Apply the principle of least privilege to ensure that users can only access the minimum set of objects they need for their role.
- **Use UUIDs or Non-Sequential IDs**: Prefer non-predictable, non-sequential object identifiers (e.g., **UUIDs** instead of simple integers) to make enumeration and brute-force attacks harder.
```
